Add Scroll to Text Fragment, CORB and CORP Leaks (#7)
xsleaks/wiki: content/docs/attacks/scroll-to-text.md

+++
title = "Scroll to Text Fragment"
description = ""
date = "2020-07-21"
category = "attacks"
attacks = [
    "dom property",
]
defenses = [
    "same-site cookies",
    "sec-fetch metadata",
]
menu = "main"
+++

## Explanation

> `Scroll to Text Fragment` (STTF) is a new web platform feature that allows users to create a link to any part of a web page text. The fragment `#:~:text=` carries a text snippet that is highlighted by the browser, and calls the user's attention by scrolling the window to focus the specified text (fragment navigation). This feature can introduce a new XS-Leak if attackers are able to detect when this behavior occurs. This issue is very similar to the [Scroll to CSS Selector](https://TODO) XS-Leak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scroll to Text Fragment` (STTF) is a new web platform feature that allows users to create a link to any part of a web page text. The fragment `#:~:text=` carries a text snippet that is highlighted and brought in the viewport by the browser. This feature can introduce a new XS-Leak if attackers are able to detect when this behavior occurs. This issue is very similar to the [Scroll to CSS Selector](https://TODO) XS-Leak.
```

> In early discussions for the specification of this feature, several XS-Leaks would arise with a naive implementation [^1]. The specification considers various attack scenarios [^3], so does some research from Google [^4]. These are some of the **possible** XS-Leaks browsers would need to be aware of when implementing this feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In early discussions for the specification of this feature, several XS-Leaks were found with a simple implementation [^1]. The specification considers various attack scenarios [^3], so does some research from Google [^4]. These are some of the **possible** XS-Leaks browsers would need to be aware of when implementing this feature:
```

Author: I don't think they were actually found. This is a direct reference to the spec that **literally** does say what could happen with a naive implementation.

> A naive implementation of the text search algorithm could allow information exfiltration based on runtime duration differences between a matching and non- matching query. If an attacker could find a way to synchronously navigate to a text fragment directive-invoking URL, they would be able to determine the existence of a text snippet by measuring how long the navigation call takes.

Source: https://wicg.github.io/scroll-to-text-fragment/

Reviewer: Okay, but I think then we have to match the verb tense. "In early discussions...several XS-leaks would" feels like smth is missing or wrong.

Author: Yes I agree, we should not change the verb tense. I will try to rephrase this.

Author: Fixed in 8a10c92

> 

Reviewer: I would add that if a page fetches a resource only if that part of the view is visible you can check later as an attacker if that resource is in cache. This even works without the need for iframes.

Author: I am not sure I understand this correctly. So that would need to chain other vulnerability right? Checking if the resources was cached in the browser, or if the page allows some kind of injection it could allow an attacker to check if its own resource was fetched?

Reviewer: well, not really. Let's say a website has some resource fetched from a CDN in the footer of a page, and that is only fetched if the page is scrolled. Any site could check if the resource is in cache, right?

Author: > Any site could check if the resource is in cache, right?

In theory yes, but in practise It's not always like that. This is one of the things we have to discuss. 
I think it's easy to check if the resource was cached, but not so easy to purge it. The problem is that we need both to guarantee the resource was not cached in a previous moment, prior to the attack.

Author: Yes that's right. I believe this no longer work since [the referrer size was capped](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=959757) for this particular reason. We should totally discuss this (and similar options) in our next meeting.

Author: > I would add that if a page fetches a resource only if that part of the view is visible you can check later as an attacker if that resource is in cache. This even works without the need for iframes.

I thought about this again and I need to confirm one detail. This would not work in a regular situation, right? For the resource not to be fetched right away when the page loads, it must set `loading=lazy` or other alternative?

Author: Added in 836ca4a

- A web page that embeds an attacker-controlled iframe might allow the attacker to determine whether a scroll to the text has occurred. This can be done using the [`IntersectionObserver`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Intersection_Observer_API) API [^2] [^3] [^4].

> - An attacker by embedding the page as an `iframe` can detect if the paged scrolled to the text by listening to the `blur` of the parent document. This approach is similar to the [ID Attribute XS-Leak]({{< ref "id-attribute.md" >}}). This scenario is prevented in Chrome implementation [^5] as it only allows the fragment navigation to occur in top-level navigations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An attacker can, by embedding the page as an `iframe`, detect if the paged scrolled to the text by listening to the `blur` of the parent document. This approach is similar to the [ID Attribute XS-Leak]({{< ref "id-attribute.md" >}}). This scenario is mitigated in Chrome implementation [^5] as it only allows the fragment navigation to occur in top-level navigations.
```

Apart from browsers implementation, these issues are also application dependent, not feasible all the time. Nevertheless, XS-Leaks [Defense Mechanisms](({{< ref "../defenses/" >}})) should be applied to reduce the attack surface of possible exploitation.

{{< hint warning >}}

> `Scroll to Text Fragment` is only available on Chrome. Its draft specification is under active discussion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Scroll to Text Fragment` is only available in Chrome. Its draft specification is under active discussion.
```

Please add a hyperlink to the draft.

Author: Fixed in 07b3445

{{< /hint >}}

### Why is this a problem?

> Attackers can abuse the principle of the `STTF` to leak private information about the user, since its highly connected with the contents of a web page.

Reviewer: We can expand this acronym.

Author: What do you mean? It's done right in the beginning of the article.
